Vivi-Anne, you're going to do a solo
in the competition this weekend.
Vivi was uncomfortable
with the solo that we worked on,
so we are going to go ahead
and do a piece that she already knows.
KELLY: Brooke's hip
has been bothering her,
so I decided to take her
to a chiropractor.
I really don't think
that it's a good thing for her
to be competing this week.
We have to.
-(sobbing)
-Why are you crying now?
ABBY: Coming up on Dance Moms...
Since we're in Pittsburgh this weekend,
I'm going to give
every single one of you a solo.
Did you know Maddie's doing two solos?
She has double the chance of winning.
KELLY: Maddie had a lot of practice,
but not all of us
have private lesson time slots.
ABBY: That has happened to me in 25 years.
It's humiliating.
CHRISTI: I am so fed up with the BS.
-Get out of here now.
-Let's go.
She is holding a national title
and I will take it away in a minute.
That (bleep) bitch.
(theme music playing)
SINGER: ♪Get up♪
♪Get on the floor ♪
♪My world is with my girls♪
♪Living on the dance floor ♪
(dramatic music playing)
ABBY: Let's talk about
Starbound Competition.
Can we have round of applause?
-Whoo-hoo.
-(applause)
Okay, so Brooke,
you blew them away.
The people sitting around me were in awe
when you did your handstand twist.
(cheers and applause)
But why all the drama
with the hip? Hmm?
If you are seriously injured,
you don't need to go to your mother
and get everybody worked up.
You come to me,
and that needs to be clear, yes?
Abby's comment about
Brooke crying about her,
had been complaining that it hurt,
I thought was crazy.
If Brooke's hurt, she should come to me.
If she didn't complain about it
and we didn't put ice and stuff on it,
she probably wouldn't have been able
to perform the dance.
I want to talk
about this week's competition.
This week's competition
is Onstage New York,
right here in our hometown,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
This is one competition
where we cannot have anything go wrong.
All of my peers will be here.
All of my competitors will be here.
All of my enemies will be here.
Do you see there's somebody new on top?
Yes. Brooke, you are here
because of your performance.
You worked through an injury.
You did what you had to do.
You were a team player.
It feels good to be on top of the pyramid,
but I don't really care.
Like, it doesn't matter to me
whether I'm on the bottom or the top.
You are getting a solo this weekend.
All right, Chloe, Maddie,
you are also getting solos this weekend.
The bottom row,
what am I supposed to do with you four?
You need to step it up.
You need to get your butts
back in the class
and start working on your technique.
And you know what?
Since we're in Pittsburgh this weekend,
I'm going to give
every single one of you a solo.
(applause)
CATHY: I wasn't clapping
because I knew
that we were going
to have to do the bee dance.
She has not mastered that solo yet,
and I know that Vivi is very uncomfortable
with new choreography.
Moms, it's going to be a busy week.
I expect them to be amazing.
Do you understand?
Yes? Sit up straight.
Ladies, let's go.
Competing locally in Pittsburgh
is always important.
It's a big deal because my name
and my reputation are on the line.
So we have a lot of work to do.
It's like you're dancing
out of control a little bit.
You need to bring it down.
Yes.
And if everything's big,
then nothing's big.
This week,
each girl has a solo to perform.
Solos are very difficult
because there's nobody to hide
behind out there on stage.
It's all about you.
I love solo work.
I love the one on one work
with the student.
I think every child grows
from doing a solo.
Watch all the way on that heel
on that jete.
(slow music playing)
ABBY: This week,
Maddie is doing two solos,
one to the music Cry,
which she competed several weeks ago,
and the other is a new tap routine.
MADDIE: I love having a solo,
and I think I do the best
when I'm dancing alone.
I'm going to put the music on
and I want to see you do it, okay?
(upbeat music playing)
CATHY: Stick your butt out.
Push hard.
Kick it up. Get it up.
I am not happy with Vivi doing this
"Bumblebee" dance this week.
So being a dance teacher,
I just kind of took it upon myself
to say, hey, you know,
let's get together in a little room
and let's rehearse the dance.
But she doesn't want to jump
on to a new dance.
I don't want to.
Come here.
-Don't want to anymore.
-(chuckles) Don't be mad at me.
You make me keep doing this.
-What?
-Don't want to dance anymore.
All right, don't be upset.
Don't be upset.
Okay, don't be upset.
All right, let's do it again.
ABBY: Up to your shoulders.
More turn onto the passe.
Easy.
Do that again. Stand up.
Paige's solos is primarily jazz
with a few gymnastic tumbling passes.
Those are good feet. Good.
PAIGE: This is my first time doing a solo,
and I'm really scared
'cause I'm going to be out on stage
all by myself.
Get in forced arch.
Good girl.
It's scarier when you're alone
because if you mess up on stage,
you don't really have anyone
to look at or anything.
ABBY: Come on. Slide on that Jete.
Point your feet.
Legs together.
Posture.
(upbeat music playing)
WOMAN: Iced tea, no lemon.
And this one a regular Pepsi.
That's me.
CHRISTI: (indistinct) is a place
that we can go
and just kind of get out
of that dance jail.
This time, we invited Cathy to come along
because she's new to the group
and we wanted to feel like, you know,
we were including her and things.
So what did you guys think
of the competition this weekend?
It was far away,
too far away.
I mean, we sat there.
At least we got to go home.
You're right, I did.
All right, guys,
-we will see you later.
-Are you leaving?
-Yes, we're leaving.
-(overlapping chatter)
We all came here early to watch her.
(indistinct chatter)
Yeah, that wasn't fair.
Well, you know what?
This is how I feel about that, ladies.
We're in this for a different reason
and we don't need to have a jury section,
and we probably will be leaving
at the competitions. I'm sorry.
That's upsetting for us
because I think we all care
-about the kids and those dancers.
-Yeah.
Yeah. I--and if you don't want us
to be cheerleaders, that's fine,
but I like supporting the other kids.
When you say, "I like that,"
that's you're like.
It's not my like.
I don't want to be a part of the team.
I don't want to have to be a cheerleader.
When Vivi's done dancing,
I want to go home
and go about my business.
You know, I'm looking at the clock
when I'm sitting there
and I'm thinking of all of the things
that I could be doing--
shopping, even.
This is just not working well with me.
I like you guys,
but I don't want to be your cheerleaders.
(dramatic music playing)
Oh, my God, are you driving?
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Contestant number blank, Brooke.
Brooke is sticking to her forte.
She will be doing
a contortion acrobatic routine.
Cool. Straight knee, front.
Breathe.
I like to dance, but I like to hang out
with my friends more,
and boys. (chuckles)
Nia, what's going on with your legs?
Oh, yes, I'm brutally honest.
I have to be.
That leg, yes?
Do it again.
That final product onstage
is what all the hours of training
are about.
This is my job.
This is what I do.
I don't know why
you're leaning in the heels,
but go ahead.
NIA: Abby pushes us to work harder
every single day that we see her.
Why are you so sloppy?
Why is that foot hanging
on the ground? Come on.
Well, she always helps me,
because with her reminding me
to point and straighten my legs,
one day, I'm going to be a star like that.
ABBY: Jump.
(upbeat piano music playing)
ABBY: Smile, bigger.
Wiggle.
Move to the back.
Come on, think.
People think I'm tough.
They think I'm mean.
But I worry about these kids
like they're my own children.
What are you doing?
I just forgot.
ABBY: What?
You forgot?
But you have to keep going.
You can't just quit dancing.
All right, start again.
Suck it up.
I don't want to see those tears.
MACKENZIE: I love dancing,
but I don't want to go on Broadway.
All I want to do is just...
stay home and eat chips.
ABBY: Back leg higher.
Turn it out.
Slow down.
You know, I appreciate all of
the camaraderie and everything,
but I'm going to tell you point blank.
I think the different system--
and this is probably
going to offend you, Christi--
but I think the difference system--
I am Abby's colleague,
no matter how you slice and dice it.
I'm her colleague.
You are a dance mom.
I'm fine with Cathy's feelings
and how she feels about her studio
and the moms.
I think she's really a sweet person
and she was just being honest.
Abby's making a ton of money
off of me, ladies.
She's making a ton of money off
of all of us.
Well, she's probably making
a lot more off of me
because I'm probably
getting charged double.
KELLY: I think Cathy's crazy.
After the things she said today,
she needs to take her butt back
to Ohio where she came from.
CATHY: We're just on a different--
we're just on a different page,
Vivi and I.
We're part of the group,
but we're not part of the group.
I have to be true to myself
and I have to be true
to the people that I'm around.
You either like me
or you don't like me, I guess,
and I don't really care
if these moms like me or not.
I like all of you,
but we are not in it
for all of that cheerleading.
I love your necklace.
(upbeat music playing)
Hi, guys. Hi, honey, how are you?
-Okay, Maddie.
-Hello.
How's everything going?
(slow rock music playing)
I have a new solo this week
and it's called "Mother."
-You okay, honey?
-Yeah.
I think my biggest competition
is probably Maddie
because she's a very good dancer.
People have told me
that I'm a good dancer.
ABBY: Shouldering, shouldering.
More (speaks French).
Maddie gets two solos
because she takes
a standing private lesson in tap,
all year from September to June,
once a week,
and there's where she learns
her tap routine.
Then her other solo
is just like all the other kids.
More eye contact with the judges.
Get in their face, Maddie.
WOMAN: I'll go look for another bow
for you.
Did you know Maddie's doing two solos?
KELLY: No.
Melissa just sat here
and said that Maddie is doing
two solos this weekend.
KELLY: And Whose idea was that,
hers or Abby's?
They probably got together over,
you know, lunch
and talked about it.
No one has a chance in hell
of winning against Maddie.
She's doing two solos.
She has double the chance
of winning against anyone else.
I can't even get
rehearsal time for one.
You know, I haven't even
heard my kid's music yet.
How do you practice
your dance without music?
Well, Melissa's
in charge of music.
Isn't that ironic?
Yeah.
She always finds a way
to get an edge, always.
It's solos week.
Everybody should have one solo.
I am so aggravated.
-CATHY: Hi, girl.
-MELISSA: Hello.
Everybody was so mad
because I wasn't on the bus.
I mean, I'm fine with it.
My daughter just like
to be with her friends.
Okay, Vivi,
I need you for rehearsal.
Let's go, sweetheart.
I went into the den
to see who was next for rehearsal
and there was Vivi-Anne, no mom.
I would so love
for us to do something.
-You would love my girlfriends.
-Yeah.
Come on over here.
Last week,
Cathy went behind my back.
She let Vivi do an old routine
that she had known.
That's not the point.
That's not how we're
learning to pick up quickly.
So this week,
I made sure I pulled that kid out
of the dressing room,
I put that bumblebee costume on her.
I had her run that routine
over and over and over
so that that mother
could not change it.
Oh, that fits you beautifully.
I don't like makeup and costumes.
SINGER: ♪ Tastes so sweet
from head to feet ♪
♪ You now that's something
that can't be beat ♪
-I'll let you get back to work.
-Okay, thank you.
Bye.
Sashay. Sauté.
Oh, what do we have on?
ABBY: Point, point.
CATHY: If she is insistent that Vivi have
to do this "Bumblebee" dance,
I will certainly
reimburse her for her time
and we may not
even be at the competition.
Do you want to see?
I would love to see.
It's your time to show
mom that you can do this.
She doesn't have
any faith in you.
Cathy underestimates Vivi-Anne.
She does not push her.
I think owning a studio,
she does not want it to be
all about her daughter.
She does not want
to lose customers.
But in the process,
the child isn't where
she should be, technically,
and that's why
she's bringing her to me.
And that's my job
and that's what I'm going to do.
She just needs to butt out.
Good girl.
(indistinct)
Oh, ye of little faith.
The situation with Cathy
is very bizarre.
Cathy really wants nothing
to do with the ALDC team.
She really doesn't.
I need you to be a role model.
You're a dance teacher.
You know how important it is
to get these mothers to do--
Abby, I cannot ride a bus,
if this is where this is going.
The attitude
that I'm too good for the bus,
no, that has to stop.
I can't do these field trips, I'm sorry.
But that's part of the team.
-You want her to be--
-I can't.
Then let her go by herself.
-Okay. Okay.
-That's fine.
Vivi comes with me, that's fine.
-Oh, no, no, no, no, no.
-You don't have to go.
We're not going
to do that either.
I don't like not being in control.
I'm being told what I have to do,
where I have to go,
and this is just not
sitting well with me.
But we want to arrive
together as a team.
Why do we have to do that?
Are we part of the Olympics?
Cathy, why are you here?
You're here to be part
of the Abby Lee Dance Company,
but you don't want
to play the game.
I know, I don't.
This is how I feel, Abby.
They should be
focused on themselves
and we'll be focused
on ourselves.
ABBY: I know, but that's selfish
and I'm not trying
to raise selfish children.
We live in America.
I feel like I'm in jail
that I have to jump on a bus
and ride with everybody
like I'm an elementary student.
I set my rules.
If you don't like them,
go somewhere else.
I don't care.
We're doing your solo this week.
I'm very pleased
with what I saw.
The costume is just as hideous
as I thought it was.
-Sorry. Sorry.
-Why would you say that to me?
Why would I create
a hideous costume?
I'm sorry.
Okay, I got to go.
So we're going
to get the address
to meet you at the venue
this weekend and all is good.
You're going to go
look up the address.
-Okay.
-And we'll meet you.
(dramatic music playing)
CHRISTI: Well, go ahead.
You guys can start eating.
I know everybody's starving.
I decided to have all
the moms over for lunch
because I thought that it was important
that we come together as a group
and talk about Cathy
and sort of what her intentions were
at our studio.
All right, girls, I asked you
to come over here
because I think we need
to talk about Cathy.
If she's going to benefit
from being a member of the team,
then she needs to get
her ass on the bus.
She needs to stay
and support my kid
-at 9 o'clock at night.
-HOLLY: All the kids.
If we have to abide
by Abby's rules,
everyone has to abide
by Abby's rules.
Because if you start making
exceptions to the rules,
then why have rules?
Exactly.
MELISSA: I understood the concern
of the other mothers.
I kind of feel caught in the middle
because I really like Cathy a lot.
I guess the other issue
is to level the playing field.
Would you be willing
to pull one of Maddie's solos?
I don't know about that.
I have to talk
to Maddie about that.
Christi asked me to pull
one of Maddie's solos.
I thought it was
very inappropriate.
Maddie gets two solos
because she has a tap private,
so she has a tap solo every year
and then Abby just gives her
an extra solo.
I don't see why wouldn't be
fair for my daughter doing two solos.
I don't think I would do that
because I don't think you
guys would do that.
I did do it.
-I did it this year. Yes, I did.
-This year?
I did it at DEA.
I could have had Chloe compete
and didn't.
Why not?
Because Paige and Nia
deserved a chance to shine.
I have to think about that.
I have to talk
to my daughter about that.
What would be
your reasons for not doing it?
Because I'm not going
to hurt my daughter.
Maddie, by far, is one
of the strongest dancers.
There's no question about that.
There's no need for her to have
two solos to prove
that she's a really strong dancer.
We know that.
If you looked at it
from our perspective,
you would be upset
if Chloe were doing two solos
and Maddie only had
a chance to do one.
I would not.
If another mom
had their child in two solos,
I would never go to that mom
and ask them to pull
one of their daughter's solos.
It's really none of my business
what their daughter is doing.
I have to worry about my children,
not their children.
It's coming very cutthroat
and I don't think
it needs to be that way.
I don't want to discuss it.
(cheerful music playing)
DANCE INSTRUCTOR: One, two...
ABBY: We've only got one day left
to get all these numbers together
for Onstage.
The girls are ready.
I have complete faith in them.
I would never send them out
on stage if they weren't ready.
(indistinct chatter)
(upbeat music playing)
Hello, how are you?
MELISSA: How are you?
Ready for another day.
MELISSA: I'm cutting your music.
Dance is so expensive,
so I do work for Abby at the studio.
I do the costumes, the music.
I work at the desk.
Hi, girls.
-Hello.
-MELISSA: I have your music.
The pages I can't seem to get.
Music.
Where's my music?
Music's always
getting lost at the studio.
I mean, I don't have music yet.
Every day this week I checked in
to see if Paige's music was cut.
It was the night
before the competition
and Paige still hadn't
heard the music.
All right, well if Abby comes out at all,
can you just tell her
that I need to talk to her?
Yes.
ABBY: Go.
Good, Nic.
Push.
When we don't have
music to rehearse to,
we have to use counts,
like five, six, seven, eight.
But it's not as fun
when we don't have music.
CHRISTI: Now we're doing acro?
HOLLY: Yes, can you believe it?
We are supposed
to be competing new solos,
and she needs to get these kids
who are dancing this weekend
to rehearse their solos.
-It's 7:30.
-HOLLY: I know.
It's the night
before our competition.
Ooh, that was scary, Kennedy.
Straighten your legs.
I'm in the middle
of teaching an acrobatic class.
The mothers were not confident
in their children, which saddens me.
I have more faith
in their kids than they do.
They want that kid to practice,
practice, practice on their solos
that they're
going to get on stage
and do for two minutes
and 30 seconds
instead of learning
how to dance.
Then they could learn
a combination like that
and then get on stage
and perform it.
So obviously, she's not
going to perform very well
when she's the youngest age
in the category and she has no music.
And she hasn't had
any super secret privates.
Exactly.
CHRISTI: I absolutely think that Maddie
got more time than anybody.
She got those extra
rehearsal times in there.
ABBY: Good.
I work really hard,
and that sometimes makes me tired,
but that doesn't
stop me from dancing.
When are we going to start
running dances and get started?
ABBY: Get that weight
into your left shoulder.
I think everybody's
ready to do their solos.
Paige does not have her music,
but her solo looks great.
You know what, guys?
This is ridiculous.
I'm going down
and getting Paige
and telling her to run her solo
with Emma.
Good.
And then pull Brooke in after,
and then put Nia in,
and I'll bring up the rear.
-I like that attitude.
-KELLY: Ridiculous.
Melissa, can I have
Paige's music?
It's downloading.
It's been downloading
for 14 minutes.
KELLY: I mean, Paige is 10.
She needs to run
her dance to her music.
And it was Friday night,
8 o'clock,
and I still had
no music for Paige,
and we were competing
the next morning.
This wireless is so slow.
Still three minutes. God.
Everything
is always so last minute.
-She's teaching acro.
-MELISSA: I don't know.
KELLY: And since when do we do
a five-hour acro class
the night before competition?
Hiding in there
doing an acro class.
-MELISSA: Who's hiding?
-CHRISTI: Abby, because she knows
that our kids need to rehearse.
My daughter rehearsed
with her private today with Matt.
CHRISTI: But at least
she got to rehearse.
Well, I have a standing
private every week, so.
I'm still waiting
for Paige's music.
You guys don't realize
what I do for your kids.
-I mean, I work.
-No one's saying
you don't do for the kids,
but we also know
that there are things
that our kids
don't benefit from, either.
Because I mean,
just throwing the cards on the table.
Typically, when there's
a conflict or a confrontation,
Melissa has
a tendency to deflect.
Melissa always
has something else
that she's willing to talk about
that's not the topic
that she wants to talk about.
And when we go
to competitions,
Gianna is like
your own personal helper.
But she would do anything
for any of the kids
-because she loves the girls.
-But she doesn't.
She only does it for Maddie.
The point is we need our kids
out of that room
and in B, running their dances.
(sighs) Please.
I just feel that the moms
don't like me because my daughter
is a great dancer
and they kind
of hold that against me.
They don't realize
what I do behind the scenes.
If they didn't have
me at the studio,
things wouldn't get done.
It's just how they are.
They're just little bitches.
Her music's ready.
I'm so sick of this.
I'm sick of them saying,
oh, it's all about Maddie.
-It's all about Maddie.
-What's--
Maddie's in class.
-They all want to learn their solos.
-ABBY: No.
MELISSA: I work my ass off
for these mothers
and all they do is bitch at me.
This is it for me.
I'm sick of them.
These mothers are going
to be the death of me.
I run their daughter's numbers
between classes.
They just need to trust me
and let me do my job.
Are they going to be able
to continue running their solos
with you, Abby?
ABBY: Maddie had a half hour
private with Matt (indistinct)
her tap teacher today.
Chloe came in today.
Emma worked with her.
But she's learning
a whole new dance.
All the moms
are like in a tizzy
because they don't have
their solo rehearsal time.
They don't have the
right solo music.
Like, Chloe learned a new routine,
and her mother's, oh my God.
She's the only one that has
a new routine, new routine.
BS.
There's no way
that because she ran it twice
to new music
that she's going to be able
to compete on Saturday.
I'm worried about that.
Everybody in town is going
to this particular competition,
so I want my best foot forward.
They need to have faith
in their daughters
and faith in my training.
I didn't just fall off
the turnip truck, you know.
I've been doing this
for 25 years.
Is this preparation
for an audition?
Yes.
Is this good for all of them?
Absolutely.
All right.
Still not rehearsing.
(engine revving)
Come on, girls, let's go.
MELISSA: It's competition day
and we're going
to the local competition
called Onstage New York.
Where's Kenz?
Hi, Brookie.
These are important
because the more
of these local competitions
Abby's kids win,
the better for her
because she might get
more kids from this.
Come on, get a seat.
The judges
of Onstage New York are tough.
They are going to be looking
at choreography,
technique, precision, performance,
and then costume.
KELLY: I think all of us moms
are in agreement
that we are not prepared
for this competition.
Maddie had a lot of practice
because she has scheduled
privates every week,
but not all of us
have private lesson time slots.
-ABBY: Nia.
-NIA: Here.
-Mackenzie.
-MACKENZIE: Here.
-ABBY: Maddie.
-MADDIE: Here.
Vivi-Anne.
DANCER: Not here.
CATHY: The mothers want me
to be part of the team
by riding with them on the bus.
I'm sorry, I guess I'm going to have
to be a rebel on this one.
I don't ride buses.
Here we go, girls.
Hold your breath. Arms up.
(whimsical music playing)
(upbeat music playing)
Yeah, your packet
and there's a program inside.
-Hi.
-Let's go. We're all here.
(indistinct chatter)
ABBY: Girls, break a leg.
Please make me proud
out there, all righty?
CHRISTI: I'm really pissed.
This competition was setup
from the get go
that it wasn't going to be a fair fight.
Abby entering Maddie's two solos
in the competition this week
makes perfect sense to me.
Abby keeps saying
we're in her own backyard.
She has a reputation to protect.
She wants everybody to do well.
Abby only cares if Maddie does well
because if Maddie wins
the overalls, Abby looks good.
I don't see why wouldn't be fair
for my daughter doing two solos,
and it's really none
of the other moms' business
what my daughter is doing.
(crowd cheering)
ANNOUNCER: (indistinct) solo.
Please welcome Maddie
with "Acapella."
(cheering)
SINGER: ♪ You got big, black boots
and legs up to there ♪
♪ A dozen tattoos
and slicked back hair ♪
♪ You dance with all
the rockabilly cats ♪
♪ You know, pretty baby,
I like it like that ♪
♪ Come on over so I can see ♪
MADDIE: What I'm best at
is tap and lyrical.
And I've won a lot
of awards for my solos
that are tap and lyrical,
and this is my first year
doing a lyrical dance.
And last year
I did a jazz dance,
but I never went
for a title for that.
SINGER: ♪ Rockabilly girl,
you rule my rockabilly world ♪
(cheers and applause)
ABBY: I was very impressed with Maddie.
Her taps were clear as a bell.
Beautiful performance.
ANNOUNCER: Next up we have
advanced prep acro gymnastics solo.
Please welcome Mackenzie
with "Kids Dance."
(crowd cheering)
(Sabrina Lentini's "One Chance" playing)
SINGER: ♪ One chance... ♪
MACKENZIE: I'm a mouse.
I have a really long tail
and it gets in the way
sometimes when I do some tricks.
SINGER: ♪ Once chance to rule with words ♪
♪ Make a change, your voice is heard ♪
♪ If it's something you really want,
don't give up ♪
♪ Keep pushing on ♪
♪ You can reach from the mountaintops ♪
♪ Or you can reach
straight for the stars ♪
(applause)
You were so good.
I'm so proud of you.
MACKENZIE: I can tumble forever.
I love it.
Everyone was clapping
for you.
I know, I heard.
CATHY: Vivi's solo is coming up
and I'm extremely nervous.
I want to see her do a good job,
and I'm also excited for her
because she looks as adorable
as a honeybee can possibly look.
ANNOUNCER: Say hello
to Vivi-Anne with "Bumblebee."
SINGER: ♪ Tastes so sweet
from the head to feet ♪
♪ You know that's something
that can't be beat ♪
♪ No word of a lie so don't even try ♪
♪ Ain't no honey sweeter
than my honeybee ♪
♪ Can't you see? ♪
ABBY: Choreographically,
I challenged Vivi-Anne.
I taught her new steps,
new acrobatic tricks that really
jacked up the level
of difficulty in the routine.
SINGER: ♪ Ain't no honey
sweeter than my honeybee ♪
SINGER: ♪ Yeah, there ain't no honey
-(indistinct) that, you know--
-(indistinct)
You know you danced about eight counts
ahead of the music?
I know.
(indistinct)
Huh?
I fell.
CATHY: You fell?
You slipped?
Well, I don't know, honey.
I'm not pleased with what you did,
you know that?
And I don't think that
Abby's going to be, either.
So we're going to have
to practice (indistinct)
Listen. Look at me when I talk to you.
We're going to have to go back home,
go back to the dance studio and practice.
We're not here practicing.
We're going to have to go back home.
VIVI-ANNE: My mom wants me to dance
even more than I want to.
You know what? We'll get it, okay?
We'll get it.
VIVI-ANNE: I love my mom a lot
and I like to dance
because it makes my mom happy.
Let's go change. All right.
CATHY: It's been really difficult for me
feeling that we're truly a part
of this Abby Lee experience
because no matter how I try to fit in,
I'm not part of their history.
(upbeat music playing)
ANNOUNCER: Please welcome
Brooke with "Break Me."
(pop music playing)
SINGER: ♪ Oh, you had me from the start ♪
♪ With one look you cut
right through my heart ♪
BROOKE: When I do the chin stands,
there was a line of tape on the stage
where I was supposed to turn,
and my neck got stuck on the tape
and it gave me a big brush burn.
So, I have scars all over my chin.
SINGER: ♪ And I am fragile and I am weak ♪
♪ And if you wanted to,
you could break me ♪
(applause)
KELLY: I was really nervous
about Brooke going on
and her hip being hurt.
I wasn't sure how well
she'd be able to perform,
but she did great and pulled it off.
You know, I was nervous
but she knew what she was doing.
(upbeat music playing)
HOLLY: Knowing
Nia's just learned the solo,
and I am not feeling great
about this performance at all,
and I worry she's going
to freeze on stage.
ANNOUNCER:
Please welcome Nia with "You Do."
(applause)
(jazz music playing)
SINGER: ♪ Oh ♪
♪ Oh ♪
♪ La la la la ♪
♪ Such a sudden eruption,
a sweet sensation... ♪
NIA: I'm excited for my solo
because in the past few weeks,
I've really improved a lot.
SINGER: ♪ You do ♪
♪ You can't be saved ♪
♪ You got my number ♪
(applause)
NIA: I forgot part of my solo on stage
so I kind of made up the rest of it.
I'm so proud of you.
(tense music playing)
PAIGE: When I'm backstage,
I'm really nervous
because I'm scared I'm going
to forget my dance before I go on,
and it makes me forget it more
if I really get rushed up about it.
KELLY: For Paige to learn solo
and perform it in two days,
that makes me nervous for her,
but hopefully she just goes out there,
uses her personality,
and charms the judges.
(jazz music playing)
SINGER: ♪ Bet you're thinking
that you know me ♪
♪ Make you do a double take ♪
♪ Why we are the... ♪
♪ The way we are is a mystery ♪
♪ I am so undercover ♪
♪ You can't see the half of me ♪
♪ It's time to check this... ♪
(indistinct chatter)
(tense music playing)
ABBY: Paige was like
a deer in the headlights.
That hasn't happened to me in 25 years.
I was sick to my stomach.
It's humiliating.
(tense music playing)
Just go off.
SINGER: ♪ Half of me ♪
♪ It's time to check this over ♪
I was sick to my stomach.
That hasn't happened to me in 25 years.
She was like a deer in the headlights.
It's humiliating.
Just go off.
(applause)
ANNOUNCER: Give her
a nice round of applause.
Make her feel very comfortable.
ABBY: There's no excuse.
You should remain on stage
and continue dancing.
(indistinct chatter)
ABBY: It was humiliating
for me as a teacher,
number one, and number two,
she should be humiliated.
KELLY: That would be okay.
It's okay.
Don't be sad.
You looked beautiful for what you did do.
No, I didn't.
Yes, you did.
I didn't remember my tuck.
You were perfect.
Don't worry about it, Paige. It's a dance.
Who cares?
So what?
It's my own solo though.
I know, but it's not your fault
that it was messed up...
...right?
Don't you agree with me?
You got your music
last night at, what, 8:30?
And went home and went to bed
and we're expected
to rush in here and complete it.
(crying)
I wanna go home.
You want to go home?
We can't go home.
PAIGE: I want to.
Don't cry, Paige.
Don't cry.
Okay?
(upbeat music playing)
Maddie, it's fine.
Stop putting pins in it.
It looks ridiculous.
There's 50 bobby pins in it.
Let me see.
She wants everything to be
perfect all the time, the kid.
I can't stand it.
I got to stay away from her right now.
MADDIE: I'm kind of nervous.
There is a little bit more pressure on me
because I want to win
the same thing as Chloe,
and maybe even more.
MELISSA: Okay. Maddie's on in three.
Kenz, come on. We've got
to go see your sister.
CHRISTI: I am so fed up with the BS.
Melissa needs to pull
Maddie's second solo.
It's not fair.
Melissa, Melissa.
Yeah?
(cheers and applause)
(indistinct)
I guess she's letting her dance.
Oh, she's doing the second one?
Oh, my God.
And I called her and she ignored me.
No one has a chance in hell
of winning against Maddie.
She has two solos.
She already has twice as good
of a chance as anyone else.
(tense music playing)
MADDIE: I'm kind of nervous to make
sure I'm on the right timing
for my music.
And there's a lot of pressure on me
because I really want to win first.
ANNOUNCER: Next up, please
welcome Maddie with "Cry."
SINGER: ♪ And me, who's so well versed
is feeling so damn empty ♪
♪ Is at a loss for words ♪
♪ And I... ♪
♪ I don't want to do anything but cry ♪
(applause)
ANNOUNCER: That's Maddie with "Cry."
MELISSA: Good job, baby.
GIRL: Good job, Maddie.
You did great.
Good job, Maddie.
You were fabulous.
MELISSA: Christi's mad because Abby
put two solos in for Maddie.
Maddie does two solos at every
single competition we go to,
and she has for the last two years.
I love you, Chloe.
I love you too, Maddie.
Right before I go on stage,
I get a little bit nervous
so I do my nut crackle.
And--but I just go through
the dance really quick
and then I just puff, then go on stage.
ANNOUNCER: Next up, judges, we have
an advanced mini lyrical solo.
Please welcome Chloe with "Mother."
(cheers and applause)
(dramatic music playing)
SINGER: ♪ I have become my mother ♪
♪ And me, it's me ♪
♪ It's me ♪
(applause)
ANNOUNCER: That's Chloe with "Mother."
I can't even look at Melissa.
It's always all about her
daughter and no one else.
Our kids count, too.
Good job, honey.
I really don't care what Christi thinks.
She would do anything
for her daughter to win.
I don't do anything
for my daughter to win.
My daughter wins on her own.
(upbeat music playing)
All right, now's it's time
to announce our overalls
for our advanced mini soloists.
I will announce the top 10 highest scoring
advanced mini solo entries
that we have seen today.
Here are our top four.
Fourth place overall, "Mother."
That's Chloe from the Abby Lee
Dance Company.
(cheers and applause)
I don't like to lose,
but I don't ever lose anyway.
And our first place overall top scoring
advanced mini solo
is receiving a $75 check.
And the trophy is "Cry".
That's Maddie from Abby Lee Dance Company.
(applause)
ANNOUNCER: Congratulations.
Huge round of applause
for our top scorers.
Give a big round of applause.
Undefeated.
Aren't ya' happy?
-ANNOUNCER: Congratulations, you guys.
-No. I'm not happy.
-ANNOUNCER: Take that big wacky bow.
-Whatever.
You know what?
She is not going to ruin this day.
CHRISTI: This is not fair.
Chloe was learning a dance
12 hours ago in the studio,
and you expect a nine-year-old
to go on stage and be flawless?
Our kids were set up to fail.
I'm done. I don't want
to say anything else.
ABBY: Whoo-hoo.
MELISSA: Good job.
(cheers applause)
Good job, baby.
Good job.
(indistinct chatter)
ABBY: All right, let's go.
Abby, I think we need to talk.
ABBY: No, you're not
going to ruin this day.
-No, no.
-No, we need to talk, Abby.
In the hallway now.
Are you kidding me?
I'm a paying client
and you won't speak to me.
No. Nothing's worth that much money.
I think the worst thing
that Christi can do
is talk about me
when her daughter is present.
I cannot get Chloe to trust me
if her mother doesn't trust me herself.
WOMAN: I was so excited for you.
You know, we don't want
to ruin the waited victory.
-I'm not ruining today.
-No, Abby,
we need to go in the hallway.
MELISSA: Don't be doing this
in front of my daughter, Christi.
Abby. We can all go in the hallway
because I tried to talk to you
and I tried to talk to you personally.
-Why? Why are you doing this?
-Let's go in the hallway.
I'm not going anywhere.
My daughter's happy.
CHRISTI: Let's go in the hallway.
Do you want to talk about all
the things that need to be talked about?
Not here, not now.
Because you won't talk about it
and you won't talk about it.
MELISSA: I won't ever talk to you again.
(interposing voices)
You're making my daughter cry, so shut up.
And how many times did my daughter
beat your daughter this year.
(bleep).
We were stacked against
everybody this weekend
because you didn't.
Get out of here now.
-Let's go.
-Bitch.
Let's go.
Your kids feel bad, but it doesn't matter
that my daughter feels bad.
Your daughter is holding a national title
and I will take it away in a minute.
CHRISTI: Go ahead and take it away.
I'll leave your studio.
ABBY: That's fine.
Where are you going to go?
HOLLY: I would say the fight
between Abby and Christi
was incredibly embarrassing.
That could've been handled
behind closed doors,
definitely not in front of children.
Even with our issues,
I try to limit the things
that I'm saying in front of the kids
because it makes them feel bad.
It makes them feel
self-conscious and awkward.
MELISSA: Now, come with me.
Girls, they are staying with me.
You are uneducated mess.
Quit drinking.
I'm not going on that (bleep) bitch.
-That (bleep) bitch.
-Don't cry.
Don't cry.
I'm telling you.
Give me a phone.
-CHRISTI: No, she didn't even do--
-You are out of control.
I'm (bleep) at your studio.
-There you go.
-Then I need to leave.
You're done.
Congratulations.
ABBY: Thank you, sir.
Thank you very much.
How did I get stuck in this?
(upbeat music playing)